All right, so let's take a look at
the HTML markup for our recipe.
Mark, did anyone share
a CodePen in the chat?
So here we got John's markup here, and
he has got the h1 on the title
of the page, which is fine.
I said that you could start
with h2 if you wanted,
he started with h1, that's totally cool.
We've got our description
lists going on here.
He's put a div to start that and
a /u here.
That looks like maybe
a little bit of an error.
All right, moving on, and then we've got
our image, we've got our ingredients,
he's done that with an unordered list,
okay?
So in other words, we're saying that those
have to go in a certain order on the page.
The preparation also has an ordered list.
And then it looks like you probably
just ran out of time there.
Yeah, okay, so
what was your reason that you marked
up ingredients with an ordered list?
>> Just looking now,
it could it be unordered.
>> It could be unordered, right?
Yeah, it's probably unordered,
because that's a list of ingredients.
We may include them in that order.
Often recipes write them in that order,
but
they don't have to go
necessarily in that order.
But the preparation is an ordered list,
totally agree with that.
And by the way, I love the fact that
you did your description list up here
at the top, where we've got serve,
6 people, and
the category is Philadelphia ice cream,
and so forth.
I think that that's fantastic, okay?
So nicely done.
Here we've got Bogdan.
Okay, so Bogdan, he started with
the h2 for the ice cream there.
And then he's got his
description list also,
he's marked that up with the div,
probably with an eye to
a little bit styling later.
And then there are ingredients are in h3,
we have our unordered list of ingredients.
We have our preparation as an h3,
exactly how we're
gonna go about preparing
that is in an ordered list.
And then we get down to our
instructions for freezing.
So he marked that as an h3 and
then the needed equipment
as an h4 with an unordered
list after that.
That would be one way of doing this for
sure.
Then we have, okay,
figure with a blockquote, which is,
by the way, I love figure with blockquote,
I think that's awesome.
But I'm not quite sure
why you put that there,
possibly because you're quoting
the instructions from the book maybe.
I would probably think of this as
an ordered list as well, because this
is going to be a series of steps of how we
go about to freeze this particular thing.
And then, I see what you were doing,
you were thinking of the citation
down here at the bottom.
So we've got our citation for
the name of the book,
the cite element goes around that.
And then we've got a photo down here
on the bottom with its caption as well.
Okay, so that's a really fantastic job,
nice job there, Bogdan.
And we've got Carolina.
This is the last one here, let's just
take a quick peek at what she did.
So Carolina here also started
with a description list.
Once you start looking for
those description lists, man,
they show up everywhere, it's just great.
So she's got her h2,
she's got her description list.
You missed the dl on the outside of that,
not a big deal, but
you need a dl to start that particular
list, so that is missing there.
Then we have our unordered
list of ingredients,
our ordered list of preparation.
And she also did an h4 plus the unordered
list for the equipment that
you're gonna need and then an ordered
list for the way to do this.
Okay, and, Yeah,
this isn't quite what I had in mind for
the citation, but
we'll go through that in just a moment.
So there's never really
always one right answer for
how you mark things up, but
this is how I went about doing it.
So first of all,
I put this all in an article element,
because this is standalone content and
this is a preview into the next
section that we're going into.
This is a standalone content, we could
pull this out, put it on an index card,
and hand it around, and
people won't know what it is.
So it's syndicateable, so
you could consider this to be an article.
Then we have our ice cream,
I have a div around this, that's for
styling a little bit later, and
we have our description list.
And then we have our h3,
I have an unordered list of ingredients,
an h3 for preparation with
an ordered list of ingredients.
So most people got those.
And then for the instructions for
freezing, I actually took a different
approach here, I think the h4 with
the unordered list is one possibility.
I did it this way with
the description list again,
where the needed equipment is the term,
and the equipment is the definition.
So they kinda go together, right,
cuz here's the equipment that you need and
here is the list of equipment.
So they kinda go together that way.
And then an ordered list of instructions,
and
then the citation markup
can be a little bit tricky.
So again, we're previewing a little
bit into what we're going into next,
which are the big parts of the webpage.
You can put a footer at the bottom of
the article, so that's what I did here for
the citation.
And then put a paragraph
around the whole thing,
and the cite element will go around the
name of the book where this comes from,
which is the ice creams, water ices,
frozen puddings, blah, blah, blah.
That is where that goes, but
not including the name of the author.
And then we've also credited Ahmed for
his picture down here on the bottom.
So that is how I marked it up, and
that's my justification for that.
But again, I have a benefit of knowing
where we're headed in this course.
So I've thrown in a few elements
here you might not be familiar with,
we will be getting to those momentarily.
All right, so we're ready for
the next part, which is,
now that you've got your markup,
if you don't have your markup,
I will put this CodePen in the collection,
which is on your website.
If you go to the website and
you go up here at the top where it says
CodePen Collection, I am gonna put this in
right now, I'm gonna say list-markup only.
Save that and
I will add that to the collection here.
And you can take a quick peek at that.
And so now, I wanna give you, let's say,
what, another 15 minutes or so
to give you a crack at some of the CSS,
sounds good?
Okay, so I'll show you mine while
people are thinking about whether
they wanna share their CodePen or not.
So we'll flip out over here
to my finished CodePen.
So a few things, basically the way
that I approach this type of process
is exactly what we just
walked through here.
So we start with our content and
we mark it up as semantically as possible.
And then now, as we go into CSS,
now is when we might add additional div
elements or
span elements if they're needed.
Because those are really designed to
hold classes or JavaScript or whatever,
they're not really there to convey
any meaning about the webpage.
So if you've to through one passes to mark
it up, then the next passes to go through
and think about the styling,
then you wind up with something like this.
So what I've got going on here is I've
added a div just to sort of show you
where they are around
the description list and the image.
And the idea here is,
I wanna put them side by side.
So I'm gonna do that with Flexbox or
Grid or something like that.
And to be able to wrangle
those things in place,
we need to have a div
around the whole thing.
So we have a div with the description
list, we have a div with the image, and
then that gives me the parent,
the div, and the children,
which would be the description list and
the image.
And now, I can put them side by side.
For the ingredients, as you see here,
I put in a lovely little ice cream cone,
because, that is just so cute,
right, for the unordered list.
For the ordered list, I used some of those
emojis that have the numbers on them and
I swapped those in for
the various ordered list.
And then I put a color down there
in the footer at the bottom.
So you can, of course,
see my CodePen in the course
website if you take a look at that.
And you can see exactly how
I went about styling this.
I don't think there's anything in here
that's a curveball based on what I've gone
through with you here before.
This is all pretty standard stuff, we went
through the trek, like the marker for
the little ice cream cone.
We went through the tricks
about the individual emoji,
although it is worth showing
you how I set that up.
There's the freezing instructions.
So we did the first child and child two
and child three and child four, right,
because each of those need to have
a specific emoji associated with each one.
So that's the way I've set that up, and
I think those are pretty much
the high points of my CSS.
But feel free to take a look at it, and
if you have questions, let us know.
Anybody else have a CodePen that they'd
like to share for a look of the page?
How to get the emoji?
If you're talking about
how to pull them up,
I've got on my Mac, it's Cmd, Ctrl +pace.
It brings up my emoji window here.
And if I clicked here in my CodePen, and
then I click on the emoji,
it'll show up there in my code.
But Windows people told me it was
something else, what was that again,
John, for-
>> The Wiindows button and then period.
>> The Windows button,
plus the period in order to open up
the same emoji window in Windows.